---
layout: post
title: Introducing Public History - ch. 5-8
date: 2024-09-30 18:00:00
description: 
tags: formatting links
categories: sample-posts
---

Introducing Public History: Interpreting the Past, Engaging Audiences. Lyon, Nix, and Shrum. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2017.

In the fifth chapter, “Interpreting and Exhibiting History,” the authors describe the components involved in developing exhibits, from choosing the “Big Idea” that guides its creation, to curating historical objects and producing the exhibit labels that accompany each object and section, to developing relationships with and collaborating with the relevant stakeholders before, during and after each project. In the sixth and seventh chapters (“Engaging Audiences” and “Engaging Audiences: Case Studies from the Field”), the authors cover the diversity of methods public historians can choose to present history to audiences, whether via more traditional interpretive techniques such as tour guides or more interactive forms of engagement like living history museums that allow visitors to participate in historical activities, and lay out how to strategically introduce more difficult encounters to the public in productive, meaningful ways. The final chapter, “Putting Public History to Work in Your World,” gives three examples of possible career paths those interested in public history can pursue, including roles with city governments, heritage centers, and archives.

Though these final chapters do a fine job in further elaborating the expectations to which public historians should hold themselves within the authors’ stated framework of “progressive public history,” one begins to wonder whether this book embodies a sense of optimism, emblematic of the height of the Obama era, that underestimated the extent the challenge in helping the public connect to their history would increase as American society has become more polarized and more suspicious of institutions at large. As suggested by their inclusion of the “Standards for Museum Exhibits Dealing with Historical Subjects,” the exhibits we design should deploy historical knowledge to enrich “the context in which citizens make informed decisions” in a democracy and “assist individuals in identifying commonalities in the human condition and in negotiating the differences that exist in our increasingly pluralistic world” (105). While I personally agree fully with these stated goals, how do public historians account for a growing segment of the public that no longer believes in the possibility of a society built around pluralist aspirations, and that is increasingly pessimistic about our ability to publicly deliberate our collective choices, regardless of how much knowledge we provide? The authors seem to have faith in the public historian’s ability to play cultural psychologist and help repair our collective psyche by “complicat[ing] narratives” (118), producing “discomfort zones” to encourage difficult encounters (124), and “asking the public to solve today’s problems” (120). I feel this activist approach may take for granted the stability of the public’s trust in museums, which stems less from how much they uphold certain democratic values than in how museums empower visitors to encounter history on their own terms. That said, it’s clear from the book that this has been an obstacle for some time: in chapter six, the authors present the case study of Colonial Williamsburg, where actors simulated a slave auction for visitors in 1994. While the auction was meant to engage the discomfort of visitors around the reality of the site’s history of slavery, some visitors of color felt the program was insensitive, which “might have educated white visitors, but could have added to the burden of the history of slavery for black visitors” (127). Despite the best intentions of the curators and actors, the program ended for good that same year.

How should public historians account for the increasing suspicion engendered among the public towards our profession? Should we recognize the limits to what the profession can achieve, and urge even more caution in how we define our projects? Or should we be doing more political work to align stakeholders, and collaborate with other activist professions to engender less suspicious and more pluralistic-oriented publics? I still believe using public history to encourage pluralism is possible and necessary, but it may require more work in understanding public history’s place in the wider ecosystem of knowledge, more strategic analysis on how we plan out our work, and more creativity in tackling social and political obstacles that may threaten the public’s trust in our work.
