---
layout: post
title: a post with formatting and links
date: 2015-03-15 16:40:16
description: march & april, looking forward to summer
tags: formatting links
categories: sample-posts
---

Introducing Public History: Interpreting the Past, Engaging Audiences. Lyon, Nix, and Shrum. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2017.

In the first chapter, entitled “Introducing Public History”, the authors draw a distinction between traditional academic history and public history, presenting the latter as a discipline that emphasizes its relation to its audience, stakeholders, and ethical responsibilities. In the second chapter, entitled “Thinking Historically”, the authors introduce the concept of “history as a practice” to describe both the work that public historians do as historians and the ways of thinking they should instill in their audiences through their public history work. In the third chapter, entitled “Interpreting the Past Case Study: The Baltimore ’68 Project”, the authors dissect the elements of a successful public history project, the Baltimore ‘ 68 project commemorating the fortieth anniversary of the 1968 Baltimore unrest, highlighting what they call a “Community-based participatory research” approach to shared historical authority and an example of “reflective practice.” In the fourth chapter, entitled “Collecting History”, the authors share a history of collections management and share methods and considerations that account for the difficulties of building collections that represent historically under-represented populations.

My biggest takeaway from these chapters is a reorientation of the purpose of public history from merely providing the public access to historical knowledge towards promoting the idea of “thinking historically, asking questions about the past, and exploring how history relates to our lives” (29). I generally agree with the book’s stated “progressive public history” approach, particularly as a project that aims to “harness the innate sense people already have of themselves as historical interpreters, working with them to uncover liberatory tools in their lives, communities, and nations” (x). In my view, history is not just a body of knowledge but a framework in which individuals and communities come to recognize the presence of power in how they organize their lives, understand themselves, and relate to others. Public historians serve a fundamental allyship role in this regard, acting as experts in producing historical knowledge, as liaisons between the academic discipline and those outside of the academy, and tacticians who can equip the public with the historical tools and help guide them strategically in deploying these tools so they can become self-conscious agents in their own histories.

The third and fourth chapters were particular instructive in providing examples of how public history can work to promote broader liberatory goals. In the case of the Baltimore ’68 project, the lack of a clear historical record of the 1968 unrest was seen by Baltimoreans as both a symptom and a cause of the racialized underdevelopment of the city, prompting public historians to intervene, not only to commemorate the anniversary, but to “remove a stumbling block to future civic progress” (34). In interviewing participants and witnesses to the unrest, public historians simultaneously produced new primary sources to the event, giving Baltimoreans an opportunity to reconsider the significance of the unrest and challenge its popular representations, and repaired the distrust that had affected the relationship between the community and the university. Having contributed to developing a healthier understanding of their past, the Baltimore ’68 project primed the community to become more responsive to the 2015 unrest after the murder of Freddie Gray. A similar project, the Smithsonian’s 2004 Latinos and Baseball collecting initiative, used community-based collecting to produce an opportunity for the Latino community to rally around their memories of a event that contributed to their cultural unity, helping them to revisit its significance to their history and reinforce their pride in their values. Both instances demonstrate the importance of encouraging “history as a practice.”

